// Intro to the course
------------------------------
Version Control: Changes and modifications
(essential)

add
update
erase

Control Systems: Centralized and distributed

Module 1:
- Git, GitHub
- repo
- Concepts

"cd my-project" 
linux COMMANDS

// How do developers colab in the real world?
---------------------------------

Move cohesive with others with wide range of skills
When buidling features together, we have to work together
We have to work with other developers and non-developers as well
We all must be on the same PAGE
Communication is one of the most imporatant skills to have in the course, and we will learn how to
The skill differs in each company.

//          Module list
    1. Software Collaboration
    2. Command line
    3. Git
    4. Graded Assesment



// What is version control?
Wish you could've gone back to previous version of a document? Well, that's what version control is about.
It is a system that tracks your progress.
Primary goal for ANY version control system is to:
1. Keep track of changes
2. Provide access to history
3. Revert 

- add 
- modify/update 
- delete

Revision History: reverting/rollback your code , all changes made will be recorded with who and when someone made them.

identity: 
collaboration
automation: track changes, 
efficienty: you will be working with many people.

peer review: code inspection by your peers, to feedback when neccesary

DevOps: Set of practices, philosophies, and tools to Increase ability to deliver application in high quality velocity
Version control is key to aid in software quality.

// Systems of version control and tools
It may happen that when you working on a new feature, another dev is working on the same file. It may be problematic, but luckily
version control helps you with this problematic

Many version control systems out there, some are:
- Subversion
- Perforce
- AWS Code Communication
- Mercurial
- Git

------------------------------------

Version Control can be split into two categories:
1. Centralized
2. distributed

Both types are quite similar but..

Centralized Version Control System requires (CVCS): 
1. Server
2. Client

Developers that are using a CVCS, will need to pull down the code from the server to their local machine.
This gives user a copy of their work
The Client has the latest code.
Afer making changes to the code, you will need to PUSH the code to the server.

distributed version control system (DVCS):
SImilar to centralized model.
Still need to PULL from server, but!
When you pull the file from the server into your system, you will have the ENTIRE history of changes too.

CVCS ADVANTAGES:
Easier to learn
More access control to user

CVCS DISADVANTAGES:
slow, because you need to establish a internet connection

DCVS: 
You dont need to connect to the server to add your changes or view file history. It works as if you
are connected to the server, but youre on your local machine.
You ONLY need internet access to PUSH and PULL from the server
It allows developers to work in an OFFLINE state.
- Speed and performace are BETTER than CVCS

Git was created by: Linus Torvalds
Git became popular in the open-source community due to its distributed VCS design and Github offering free Git hosting for open-source projects.
Git has since become the selected version control system for many open-source and proprietary software projects.

// WORKFLOW
Using Version Control without a proper workflow is like building a city without traffic lights; 
without appropriate management, everything will turn into chaos.

For example, let’s say you’re working on a big project and editing a file.
Another developer also starts editing a file. Both of you submit the file to the VCS at the same time. 
Now there’s a conflict! How should the conflict be resolved? A good workflow will have a process for resolving conflicts.

Another example is when a new junior developer is joining your team. If the project code is used for a critical system,
it is risky to allow them to submit code changes directly. To solve this, many developers use a peer review system 
where another developer must review code before it can be merged in.

Workflows are essential to ensure code is managed correctly and reduce mistakes from happening. 
Different projects will have different workflows. In this course, you’ll learn some common workflows using the Git Version Control System.


// Continuous Integration
Continuous Integration, or CI, is used to automate the integration of code changes from multiple developers 
into a single main stream. Using a workflow whereby small changes are merged frequently, often many times per day, 
will reduce the number of merge conflicts.

This process is widespread in test-driven software development strategies. CI is often used to automatically 
compile the project and run tests on every code change to ensure that the build remains stable and prevent regressions in functionality.


// Continuous Delivery
Continuous Delivery is an extension of Continuous Integration. Once the changes have been merged 
into the main stream, a Continuous Delivery system automatically packages the application and prepares it for deployment. 
This helps avoid human error when packaging the application.


// Continuous deployment
Continuous Deployment is an extension of Continuous Delivery. The goal of Continuous Deployment is to deploy 
and release software to customers frequently and safely. The strategy commonly involves automatically deploying to a 
test (also known as staging) environment first to validate the deployment package and software changes. 
Once validated, it can automatically deploy to the live (also known as production) environment for customers.


// Conclusion
With these tools and procedures, it is possible to understand how software starts from a developer writing code to 
being deployed live for customers to use. Of course, there is much more to running a live software service, 
but that is a lesson for another day.



// STAGING vs. production

Before a dev. team releases new features/changes, they need to verify that their new code is not going to cause any issues or bugs.
They do this by setting up multiple environments for different ways to test and verify.
A common practice is for teams to have multiple environments such as:
- Developer environment
- UAT or QA environment
- Staging environment
The main purpose of this flow is to find any potential issues that may arise due to changes or new features being added to the codebase. 
The more ways to test the changes the less likely bugs will be introduced.


// Staging Environment
The staging environment should mimic your production environment. This allows teams to spot or find any potential
issues prior to theme getting to production. The closer the staging environment is to your production, the more accurate your testing 
is going to be.
Staging should also cover all areas of the architecture of the application including the database and any other services
that may be required. 

Areas that benefit from staging environment includes:
- New Features: Developers submitting new featuers along with feature flags for turning them on and off should always do a testing round
in a staging environment. It just allows the team to verify that the feature works.
- Testing: You can run tests in your staging envirnoment. QA teams will normally use it to verify new features, config changes,
or software updates/patching. UNIT TESTING, INTEGRATION TESTING, and PERFORMANCE TESTING will be the type of test they do for this.
- Migrations: Staging is a perfect place to test and verify data migrations. 
Snapshots can be taken from production and used to test your migration scripts to confirm your changes will not break anything. 
If in the case it does cause an issue, you simply rollback and try again. 
Doing something like a migration in production is extremely risky and error-prone.
- Configuration Changes: Configuration can also cause headaches for teams, especially in a large cloud-based architecture. 
Having a staging environment will allow you to spot any potential issues or bottlenecks.

// Production Environment
When you get here to this point, it's deployed... meaning, any issues or problems you may have had SHOULD have been caught and fixed
in the staging enviroment. Because, that's what it's for... The staging area (enviroment) gives the 
team a safety net to catch these possible issues. Any code that is deployed to production should have been tested and verified 
before the deployment itself.

- Downtime: You will lose A LOT of 'revenue' for any service customer facing problems. If customers can not
access or use your website or app to its full capabilities, it will most likely have a cost involved... (DUN DUN DUNNNNN)
Take for example an e-commerce company that allows users to buy goods and services online. 
If they release a new feature to their shopping cart which actually breaks the payment process, this will have an 
impact on customers not being able to buy goods online.
- Vulnerabilities: Cyber-security should also play a big role in what gets released in production. 
Any updates to software such as patching or moving to the latest version should be checked and verified. 
This is also the same rule for not upgrading software when critical updates are released.
- Reputation: Downtime or issues in production is damaging for a company as it does not instill confidence in end users. 
If something is down or broken it can cause the company to lose potential customers.







//                      MODULE 2

GUI 

// The Command line
- Various tasks 
- Quicker
- Less errors

Learning the command line will make you achieve these things listed below:
1. Creating directories
2. Creating files 
3. Combind directories 
4. Copying and moving files
5. Performing advanced searches

When I am advanced, I will be able to do this with the command line:
1. Track software
2. Access remote servers
3. Search for files using specific critera
4. Unzip archives
5. Access manuals and display them in the command line
6. Install/uninstall/update software
7. Check disk space
8. Automate various tasks
9. Control User Access
10. Stop, start, or Restart programs
11. Create aliases to execute long commands
12. downlaod files from internet
13. Run
14. Containerization (virtual software)


// Basic commands
- cd 
change directory
if I were to type 'cd ~/Desktop' , it will take me to the desktop 'folder'
if I were to type 'cd..' you will move out to the current directory and go to the parent directory

-touch 
makes a new file of what you specify
if I were to type 'touch example.txt' it will create a new file called 'example.docx'

-mkdir
this makes a new folder

-history
to view the history of previous types commands, type 'history'



To create a Folder on the Desktop, then go INTO that newly created folder, then create a file in that new folder, then 
open it in VScode, you will:

1. type 'cd ~/Desktop'
2. type 'mkdir foldername'
3. type 'cd foldiername'
4. type 'touch filename.whatevertypefileyouwant' (example.js)
5. code example.js





// What are Unix Commands?

Majority of companies run their platform on a cloud, Linux...

HELPER COMMANDS:
- man 
the command 'man' is short for manual
this command is useful if you need to know more about a command, for example:
type 'man ls'
this will show you instructions for the command 'ls'

you can also use something called 'flags'. its used to modify the behavior of a command
for example: 'ls -l'. the "-l" part of the command is called a FLAG.

'ls' - show contents
'cd /Users/Ricky/Github ' <- example
'ls -l'
this lists the files out in list order and shows the read/write permission, owners, and groups it belongs to
'ls -a'
this lists all files and directories, even hidden owners
'pwd' (print working directory)
this shows the full path of the current working directory
'cp'
copy one file/folder, to one destination to another
'mv' - move command
moves files from one directory to another
for example:
type 'mv foldername foldername'
the first foldername is the folder you want to move, the second foldername is where you want to place it in



// Below will be explanations of what each letter means when we do 'ls -l' (list form in our terminal)
'l' 
this is a link file. it is always going to be first. 
'temp ->'
this is a temporary file
'd' - bin directory
this is a standard directory, you can use the change directory (cd) command to enter it
'etc' 
to change directory, use 'cd'.
type 'cd etc' directory, and press enter
type 'ls' to check contents
( will need to be in the root to see etc file. so 'cd..' all the way)
( or, type 'cd /'  , this will take you to the root)

'cat' 
you run this command and then a file, which will return the content in the file. for example
'cat file1.txt'

'wc' 
this will return the wordcount for a file.
type 'wc file1.txt -w'
the '-w' flag tells the wc command to RETURN the word count



// Pipes 
A coding tool that allows the output of one command to be used as the input for a different command
a pipe command is ' | '
'ls | wc -w'
'cat file1.txt | wc -w'
'cat file1.txt file2.txt | wc -w'



// Redirections
With redirection, you can change the standard input or output.
stdin = 0
stdout = 1
stderr = 2

Standard Input
<
cat command

Storing input
(explore an example of how to take input and store it in a .txt file)
type 'cat > input.txt'
press enter
now, you have access and power to type whatever you want into this file.
after you're done, press enter.
then click 'control + d' to end.

type 'cat < input.txt'
this is how you display what you just wrote using the previous cat command.



Standard Output
normally, when we type 'ls' in a terminal, itll display the list of what's in the directory.
to make it output elsewhere
type 'ls -l > output.txt'
the output.txt hasn't been created yet, but once you click enter, you will create it.
then click 'ls' to display directory
type 'less output.txt'
this less command will preview your file.


// Error Output

< input.txt > output.txt 2> error.txt
in terminal
type 'ls -l /bin/usr/ > error.txt
an error will show up and say 'ls: cannot access '/bin/usr': No such file or directory 
DO THIS INSTEAD =
'ls -l /bin/usr 2> error.txt'
after it is created, type the command below to preview the data
'less error.txt'



// GREP (Global Regular Expression Print)
use this to search files and folders as well as contents in them

type 'ls -l'
you will see your directory files
(in this example, name.txt is made with names in it)
type 'less namestxt'
type 'grep Sam names.txt'
output will be 'Sam'.
grep is case sensitive
if you were to type 'grep sam names.txt'
output will be names with '-sam-' in it, no matter where -sam- is in the name.
type 'grep -w Sam names.txt'
this will output the exact name 'Sam'




// Git
Git is a version control system
Git was designed to do better than previpus vcs.
It is fast, reliable, open source

// GitHub is a cloud repository
It has access control, pull requestions, and automations.
Projects on it can be private or public. Users have their own profile where you can follow others.


Github Tokens

//Git Clone 
'mkdir projects'
'cd projects'
'git clone (paste your HTTPS from your newly created repo here)'

then, type 
'ls -la'
this will list your newly clone repository in your directory


when done making changes or adding anything into your code, type:
'git add ."
this will put your code changes and additions into a staging area.
then, type:
'git commit -m "(inside the parenthesis, type your comments)"'
then, press enter to push the changes and COMMIT your changes.
then, type:
'git push'
this will push all the things you added and commits, to the cloud/repo so that your colleagues can 'git pull' from.
